- [Instructor] You've already learned
that Lambda is an awesome service,
that spins up a micro virtual machine,
with settings you provide for the execution environment,
and it executes your code.
But, what really happens between a micro virtual machine
before, during, and after execution of your code?
What happens with database connections
established from my code?
What happens if your function runs into a infinite loop,
or is waiting for a long time for external resource?
Understanding the internals of Lambda Execution,
will help us optimize our functions,
to be more performant, and cost effective.
When the Lambda service receives an event,
it spins up a new virtual machine, with the memory, runtime,
and configuration specified.
During this step,
it loads the code by downloading it from S3 bucket.
Once complete, Lambda imports libraries,
runs any incentivization code, outside the handler,
before finally running the handler code.
The first three steps are referred to as a Cold Start.
You'll learn the function was Cold,
before it started executing,
which adds latency to the execution.
Does it mean it happens for every request?
It depends.
If it was the first time
this Lambda function was executed, then yes.
However,
once the cold start has finished,
Lambda freezes the Execution Context,
to be ready for reuse, for around 15 minutes.
During this time, if another request arrives,
the service will reuse the context,
skipping all bootstrapping time.
But, what does this mean for us?
Well,
since any global variables outside of code will get reused,
which will make invocation finish faster.
This means that any code,
that can be reused across different executions,
such as database connection,
connection to S3 bucket,
loading file in memory,
and making an API call, that could be cached,
can be put outside the handler,
that's almost removing the Cold Start entirely.
This allows AWS Lambda to reuse existing resources,
such as database connections,
for the duration of the containers lifetime,
but do you need to care about closing database connections?
No, you don't need to explicitly manage connections,
or implement connection pooling,
because AWS Lambda manages this for you.
Other code optimizations, that we can use
are specific to Java.
Reduce number of dependencies.
If you include the library, like AWS SDK,
make sure to include only the individual services
that you need.
If you're only interacting with S3 in your function,
only include the S3 portion of the SDK.
Prefer simpler dependency injection frameworks,
that load quickly on execution environment start-up.
For example,
I prefer Guice and Dagger, over more complex ones,
like Spring Framework.
Use AWS SDK version two.
New library comes with significant improvements
to improve cold start.
Use the built in HTTP client, over Apache, or Netty,
which can save you up to one second.
We did default configuration,
the SDK will automatically determine
which credential provider to use,
by looking at various places,
such as system properties,
credential files, et cetera.
By using dedicated provider,
you can save up to 90 milliseconds.
Similar to the credential provider,
the SDK can also dramatically determine
which region to use, through different sources.
By specifying a region,
you can save up to 80 milliseconds.
AWS SDK comes also with other libraries,
that improve in serialization time.
Avoid using recursive code,
as it could lead to unintended function invocations,
and escalated costs.
Finally, make sure to run performance tests.
A great library that can help you with that,
is AWS Power Tuning,
as it does AB testing of different configurations,
which can help you find optimal value
for memory, timeout, and price.